Class number 12, first priority, and down to 14, we could only enter three priorities.
But also, I signed up asking to go immediately from A&M without any delay.
So, final review Saturday, and I reported to Fort Sam Houston Sunday.
And stayed there for a month until I went up to Fort Sill to attend school.
And that's 1941.
That's in 1941.
And that was by choice, because my employer,
future employer, prospective employer, had said, well, go on and get it over with right now.
But others kind of stayed around.
Others were not quite old enough.
Pete Wainer, incidentally, was not old enough to accept his commission of age 21.
So he did not come in until probably 1942.
I don't, early 1942.
I don't know exactly when his birthday was, when he turned 21.
How did you and your friends feel at final review that day?
That was a rough one.
There is a picture inside our annual that was taken at that time, and people were gathering.
I don't know, this is just a little excerpt from it, but that was taken right after final review.
As you can see, there's not really very many happy faces there, solemn, not sad or anything, except sad that we're not going to see our good friends for a bit, but just recognizing really that we had a responsibility to do, and we were now out of college, and we had to move on, move on with our life.
How well prepared did you and your buddies feel you were for this military service?
I felt very prepared.
And let me just say one other thing, too.
In the field artillery,
You have techniques for adjusting observed fire, as we would call it, where you would look out and see what the round was, where it was landing and where you wanted the target to be.
I learned as much over here on campus out behind Law Hall about observed fire as I ever learned in the Army.
I don't, they would change a few of the techniques, but the basic ingredients of it, I learned that here where we would have a,
There would be a little BB-type gun and shoot little projected steel balls out there.
And we would see where it hit and the dust that would fly, a little bit of dust.
And that's the way that I really learned observe fire techniques for the field artillery.
And as I say, I learned very little more at Fort Sill.
And also I think that...
through the ROTC and various
and particularly as a battery commander here, that I learned a good deal about leadership in dealing with people from various backgrounds.
Because in the Army, you never knew what the background was with your people.
But anyway, I think that I don't know anybody that really was scared, you know, of accepting the responsibility of an officer.
Who came of your family and other loved ones, who came to commissioning and final review and graduation?
My oldest brother and my youngest brother.
My mother was living in Alabama.
She had remarried and they came up for it.
The youngest brother is one that I remember a little bit more about because I had bought his old car.
And they were up here and we said our goodbyes.
But my oldest, when my father died, my oldest brother was my father figure.
He was the one that I got the closest to and so it was a, he was here for it.
What about commencement?
Where was it held?
Who was the speaker?
I don't know who the speaker was.
It was held in Guyon Hall, where else?
No other place really that it could be held.
Was every name called, every hand shaken?
Oh, yes.
Yes.
I told you, I was going across twice, name called twice, handshake twice, empty tube twice.
Let's see.
Any stories you can share about getting dates and having dates on an all-male campus?
Well, housing, talk about that for just a minute.
When the girls would come down mostly from TSCW then called, having changed from CIA earlier, the powers that be here would select the dorm that they were to be housed in and everybody would have to move out.
and clean up and make arrangements to bunk in with somebody else.
So that was the housing arrangement for them.
Some of them would come in on a bus and some of them would come in on a train.
And through various
friends who would find out if they were having a date come down and if she had a friend.
And that was the way I got to date with a Catholic girl, Jenny McGurk.
But we were never serious at all.
And as I kind of remember it, the first time,
I got the impression that she wanted a date so that she could come down here.
The second time, I invited her.
And I don't remember the how, whether we were all standing around a phone or what, or writing a letter or what.
But anyway, it worked.
And then you would take them around on Sunday morning
They'd go to church or visit various areas on campus and you knew what time the train was taken off or the bus was taken off and you'd make sure you got them there.
How, in general, how were those young ladies treated by Aggies?
I think they were treated with golden gloves, with respect and with care.
Some guys would seem like always try to pull some plank and leave some plank in their room, short sheeting.
They'd make up the beds and short sheet them, but most of the time it was just, you know,
They're coming, they're our guests, and we treat them like that.
Was it okay at a big campus dance for an Aggie to play a trick on another Aggie at the dance?
Not particularly.
So that you as a fish, a sophomore would not take advantage of you at a dance?
No.
No, but most of the time, sophomores were not at freshman dances.
Oh, boy.
And vice versa.
Yeah, but when you, let's see.
There was some organization, I can't quite remember, but it seemed like that,
would have multi-classes.
Yeah, maybe that was it.
But anyway, I've never heard of that really back in those days.
Let's see, student indulgences.
When students were going to have a big time on Saturday night, what were they smoking and what were they drinking and where?
Smoking would only be cigarettes, period.
Drinking would be beer or something else, and probably out at Uncle Ed's.
Was it respectable to go to Uncle Ed's?
Oh, yes.
Okay.
And some would, on some of those weekends, would take their dates down there.
But no, it was just a hangout.
For those days, it was easy walking.
It wouldn't be now for most of them.
They'd have to drive down there, but it was easy walking.
But there was another place that was started out on University West, out beyond where the vet medicine is now.
I can't remember, but there was another sort of a nightclub type outfit out there, and that was nicer and well-respected.
I can't remember what it was called.
You said cigarettes.
Did anybody smoke pipe?
Not much.
Cigars, no.
Mostly cigarettes.
Oh, there was some that chewed tobacco, yeah.
And if they drink any hard liquor, harder than beer, did they go to Whiskey Bridge to get it?
And mostly it would be...
Rum or just, I wouldn't call it bourbon, but I guess it's just whiskey.
Rum or whiskey.
Mixing it with Cokes, probably.
Oh, yeah.
What else but Coke?
Run and Coca-Cola.
All right, we're getting close to the questions I've thought of.
Let's see.
Did you know anything about secret fraternities when you were an undergraduate?
No, anything about it, no.
But I heard, but could not swear to it, but that TTs, true Texans.
But I did not, and I got, I was not.
I don't know that I knew anybody that was one, if there were one, if there were some.
As far as you knew, what was the purpose of that organization?
I did not know the purpose whatsoever.
Just a secret society, kind of just a group of their own and whatever.
Now, remember, I've got that swastika.
And I think that was the other one that existed at some point way back early.
What have we left out so far that you had thought of that we ought to talk about?
I guess really sort of a special bond with people that you got to know here for however you got to know them.
What creates that bond?
certain likes, you know, of the person, but certain similarities and experiences or certain just experiences here at A&M.
For instance, I mentioned Lel and Beard a couple of times.
We were in the same outfit for five years.
We only roomed together one year.
But we have maintained a very, very close relationship.
He lived down in Rosenberg.
He lived in Rosenberg when he was in school here, but he went to work for Pan American Airways as a flight engineer and flew worldwide.
When I was in the station in Germany, and see, I came home in 52, so I don't know, it might have been 50 or 51.
He had been off on a flight to the other side of Germany somewhere.
I got it.
Oh, okay.
And Carl, some way or another, got in touch with me in Germany and said, I'm going to be in Munich, such and such a date and time.
So we met down there.
And then when we were coming home from Germany in 1952, he was living on Long Island.
And, you know, coming home and bringing a car home and everything else, you don't get everything coordinated exactly.
So we spent a couple of days with Leldon and Marge there.
And we're good friends here.
I've mentioned Pete Weiner.
We had many relationships together, family-wise.
He and Joe Alice got married February the 14th of 1942, and I was stationed at Fort Sill, and so was he, and I was courting Arlene, and when she would come down to visit, she would stay at their house.
And this just continued all the way.
And then I mentioned also Bill Becker.
It has just grown a little bit closer since we've been out of the Army.
We were never really much together.
We were in Pentagon when he was up there on training to go to attache work.
Just some bond here and also I mentioned the names that are over on the memorial plaque at the MSC.
I try to go over there Memorial Day, July the 4th, and November the 11th.
I don't always make it because of some other being away or whatever but try to go over there and read all those names and
And I mentioned Jack Cooper back a ways ago.
His name is there, and one of his roommates was David E.D.
Long, and their names are right together under the class of 1939.
It just, I don't know, it's just a special bond of background and common interests, whatever.
Are there some events that Aggie students
that is while they're students, are there some events that are most important in creating this bond?
Events as such, I don't view that.
It's just being together, it's living together, it's working together, studying together.
being in the same outfit or, well, Leland is the only one of those that I've been in the same outfit with.
But in the same classes, you study together, you happen to,
be on some committee for one of these organizations.
For instance, the people that worked on the Longhorn, I think that those people are about, still about as close as you could get somebody together.
I don't think it is an event.
I think it just happens over time.
Let's see.
Nearing the end, if you have any A&M memorabilia,
letters, diaries, journals, photos that you are ever planned to dispose of, I beg you, please put them in the A&M archives so they would be preserved forever.
And or if you have letters, particularly while you were a student and or during the war that you would be willing
to have copied, you keep the originals and copies there, make the archives aware.
We want to preserve as much as we can of the reality of Texas A&M as possible.
The only thing that I know that I have as such is the commencement exercise pamphlet.
The program?
Okay.
During World War II, you know, we had V-mail.
I have at least all that my brother kept, and I think he kept them all.
I have all of those there.
Not that many because I wasn't overseas that long.
All right, now you see, those would be priceless.
And if you ever, like I would suggest you consider having copies made and passing a copy to each of your children and grandchildren and put a copy over there.
I mentioned V-mail the other day to somebody, and they thought, this was to a bright undergraduate, they thought I was mispronouncing e-mail.
I told them it was a bit different.
Victory mail.
You're right.
All right, let's see.
Another question.
Let's make believe that somebody comes up to you and gives you a check for a million dollars with only one restriction to it, that you are to pass that on to Texas A&M, but you get to tell the A&M administration what they are to do with it.
If you had a million dollars you could give to A&M, what use would you want them to make of it?
I would say half to presidential scholarships and half to core scholarships.
And on what basis would you want those two groups of scholarships awarded?
The core scholarship, I would want
to be for those with an advanced contract.
I understand my background and this might be a bias because of that, 24 years in the Army, but I just think that
military service is one very vital way that we can help this nation, even in spite of some of the problems with retention these days.
But still, military service is good and it develops leadership and even though you might not
remain in the military for, you know, until retirement or anything like that.
Still the leadership part of it is present.
For the other scholarship, presidential scholarship, I don't know that there's any setup now for it.
But I think that those student leaders in the various
programs and activities under MSC are, that is a wonderful training ground for them and I would want that part of it recognized and supported.
Last question.
What feelings do you hold in your heart for Texas A&M today?
Oh boy, a feeling in my heart.
It's right there with God, country and family.
Texas A&M is part of the country.
Texas A&M is, you know, I don't know where I would be if I hadn't come down here to school.
I'd probably be a dead cotton farmer.
But it's just, you know, God, country, family, A&M, it's just hard really to, well, not really.
God has to come first, but family.
But Texas A&M, country, they're essentially synonymous with me.